README.md, before:

# Worker Batcher

A powerful utility for parallel array processing with controlled concurrency and batch size.

[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/worker-batcher.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/worker-batcher)
[![JavaScript Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-standard-brightgreen.svg)](https://standardjs.com)
[![Badges](https://badgen.net/npm/license/worker-batcher)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/worker-batcher)
[![Badges](https://badgen.net/npm/dependents/worker-batcher)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/worker-batcher)
[![Badges](https://badgen.net/npm/types/worker-batcher)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/worker-batcher)
[![Badges](https://badgen.net/github/issues/kolengri/worker-batcher)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/worker-batcher)
[![Badges](https://badgen.net/bundlephobia/min/worker-batcher)](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=worker-batcher)
[![Badges](https://badgen.net/bundlephobia/minzip/worker-batcher)](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=worker-batcher)

## Features

- 🚀 Parallel data processing
- 📦 Batch processing
- 🎛 Configurable concurrency
- 🔄 Progress tracking
- ⚡ TypeScript support
- 🛑 Operation cancellation
- 🎯 Detailed error handling

## Installation

```bash
bun add worker-batcher
# or
npm install worker-batcher
```

## Usage

### Basic Example

```typescript
import { workerBatcher } from 'worker-batcher';

const items = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6];

const { results, errors } = await workerBatcher(
  items,
  async (batch) => {
    return batch.map(x => x * 2);
  },
  {
    batchSize: 2,
    concurrency: 3
  }
);

console.log(results); // [2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12]
```

### Progress Tracking

```typescript
const { results } = await workerBatcher(
  items,
  async (batch) => {
    return batch.map(x => x * 2);
  },
  {
    batchSize: 2,
    onProgress: ({ percent, completed, total }) => {
      console.log(`Progress: ${percent}% (${completed}/${total})`);
    },
    onBatchSuccess: (results, batch, index) => {
      console.log(`Batch ${index} processed:`, results);
    }
  }
);
```

### Error Handling

```typescript
const { results, errors } = await workerBatcher(
  items,
  async (batch) => {
    if (batch.includes(3)) {
      throw new Error('Invalid item');
    }
    return batch.map(x => x * 2);
  },
  {
    onBatchError: (error, batch, index) => {
      console.error(`Batch ${index} failed:`, error.message);
    }
  }
);

// Check for errors
if (errors.length > 0) {
  console.error('Some batches failed:', errors);
}
```

### Cancellation

```typescript
const controller = new AbortController();

try {
  const { results } = await workerBatcher(
    items,
    async (batch) => {
      return batch.map(x => x * 2);
    },
    {
      signal: controller.signal
    }
  );
} catch (error) {
  if (error.message === 'Operation was aborted') {
    console.log('Processing was cancelled');
  }
}

// Cancel processing
controller.abort();
```

## TypeScript Support

This package includes TypeScript type definitions. No additional @types package is required.

```typescript
import { workerBatcher, BatchOptions } from 'worker-batcher';

const options: BatchOptions<number, number> = {
  batchSize: 2,
  concurrency: 3
};

const { results, errors } = await workerBatcher(
  [1, 2, 3],
  async (batch) => batch.map(x => x * 2),
  options
);
```

## API Reference

### workerBatcher<T, R>(items, processor, options)

Processes an array of items in batches with controlled concurrency.

#### Parameters

- `items: T[]` - Array of items to process
- `processor: (batch: T[]) => Promise<R[]>` - Async function to process each batch
- `options: BatchOptions<T, R>` - Configuration options

#### Options

```typescript
interface BatchOptions<T, R> {
  // Number of items to process in one batch (default: 10)
  batchSize?: number;
  
  // Maximum number of concurrent batch operations (default: 5)
  concurrency?: number;
  
  // AbortSignal for cancelling the operation
  signal?: AbortSignal;
  
  // Called after each successful batch
  onBatchSuccess?: (results: R[], batch: T[], index: number) => void;
  
  // Called when a batch fails
  onBatchError?: (error: Error, batch: T[], index: number) => void;
  
  // Called to report progress
  onProgress?: (progress: {
    completed: number;
    total: number;
    percent: number;
  }) => void;
}
```

#### Returns

```typescript
Promise<{
  results: R[];          // Array of successfully processed items
  errors: Error[];       // Array of errors from failed batches
}>
```

## Error Handling

The library provides a `BatchProcessingError` class for detailed error information:

```typescript
class BatchProcessingError extends Error {
  constructor(
    message: string,
    public readonly batch: unknown[],
    public readonly batchIndex: number,
    public readonly originalError: Error
  )
}
```

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
bun install

# Run tests
bun test

# Type checking
bun run type-check

# Build package
bun run build

# Clean build artifacts
bun run clean

# Prepare for publishing (runs tests, type check, build and size check)
bun run prepublishOnly
```

## Publishing

Before publishing, make sure to:

1. Update version in package.json
2. Run prepublishOnly script to ensure everything is working
3. Create git tag for the version

```bash
# Update version
bun version patch # or minor, or major

# Prepare and publish
bun run prepublishOnly
bun publish
```

## License

MIT

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

Commit message:

Enhance README with practical usage examples and use cases
- Added concrete examples of worker batcher scenarios
- Illustrated potential use cases like API requests, data processing, and file uploads
- Provided a clear example of controlled parallel processing
- Maintained existing README structure and badges

README.md, after:

# Worker Batcher

A powerful utility for parallel array processing with controlled concurrency and batch size. Perfect for scenarios like:

- Making parallel API requests without overloading the server by controlling batch size and concurrency
- Processing large datasets in chunks while maintaining optimal performance
- Fetching data for multiple users/items simultaneously with rate limiting
- Uploading multiple files in parallel with progress tracking

For example, when fetching data for 1000 users, instead of making 1000 simultaneous API calls that could overwhelm the server, you can process them in batches of 10 with max 3 concurrent batches.

[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/worker-batcher.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/worker-batcher)
[![JavaScript Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-standard-brightgreen.svg)](https://standardjs.com)
[![Badges](https://badgen.net/npm/license/worker-batcher)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/worker-batcher)
[![Badges](https://badgen.net/npm/dependents/worker-batcher)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/worker-batcher)
[![Badges](https://badgen.net/npm/types/worker-batcher)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/worker-batcher)
[![Badges](https://badgen.net/github/issues/kolengri/worker-batcher)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/worker-batcher)
[![Badges](https://badgen.net/bundlephobia/min/worker-batcher)](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=worker-batcher)
[![Badges](https://badgen.net/bundlephobia/minzip/worker-batcher)](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=worker-batcher)

## Features

- 🚀 Parallel data processing
- 📦 Batch processing
- 🎛 Configurable concurrency
- 🔄 Progress tracking
- ⚡ TypeScript support
- 🛑 Operation cancellation
- 🎯 Detailed error handling

## Installation

```bash
bun add worker-batcher
# or
npm install worker-batcher
```

## Usage

### Basic Example

```typescript
import { workerBatcher } from 'worker-batcher';

const items = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6];

const { results, errors } = await workerBatcher(
  items,
  async (batch) => {
    return batch.map(x => x * 2);
  },
  {
    batchSize: 2,
    concurrency: 3
  }
);

console.log(results); // [2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12]
```

### Progress Tracking

```typescript
const { results } = await workerBatcher(
  items,
  async (batch) => {
    return batch.map(x => x * 2);
  },
  {
    batchSize: 2,
    onProgress: ({ percent, completed, total }) => {
      console.log(`Progress: ${percent}% (${completed}/${total})`);
    },
    onBatchSuccess: (results, batch, index) => {
      console.log(`Batch ${index} processed:`, results);
    }
  }
);
```

### Error Handling

```typescript
const { results, errors } = await workerBatcher(
  items,
  async (batch) => {
    if (batch.includes(3)) {
      throw new Error('Invalid item');
    }
    return batch.map(x => x * 2);
  },
  {
    onBatchError: (error, batch, index) => {
      console.error(`Batch ${index} failed:`, error.message);
    }
  }
);

// Check for errors
if (errors.length > 0) {
  console.error('Some batches failed:', errors);
}
```

### Cancellation

```typescript
const controller = new AbortController();

try {
  const { results } = await workerBatcher(
    items,
    async (batch) => {
      return batch.map(x => x * 2);
    },
    {
      signal: controller.signal
    }
  );
} catch (error) {
  if (error.message === 'Operation was aborted') {
    console.log('Processing was cancelled');
  }
}

// Cancel processing
controller.abort();
```

## TypeScript Support

This package includes TypeScript type definitions. No additional @types package is required.

```typescript
import { workerBatcher, BatchOptions } from 'worker-batcher';

const options: BatchOptions<number, number> = {
  batchSize: 2,
  concurrency: 3
};

const { results, errors } = await workerBatcher(
  [1, 2, 3],
  async (batch) => batch.map(x => x * 2),
  options
);
```

## API Reference

### workerBatcher<T, R>(items, processor, options)

Processes an array of items in batches with controlled concurrency.

#### Parameters

- `items: T[]` - Array of items to process
- `processor: (batch: T[]) => Promise<R[]>` - Async function to process each batch
- `options: BatchOptions<T, R>` - Configuration options

#### Options

```typescript
interface BatchOptions<T, R> {
  // Number of items to process in one batch (default: 10)
  batchSize?: number;
  
  // Maximum number of concurrent batch operations (default: 5)
  concurrency?: number;
  
  // AbortSignal for cancelling the operation
  signal?: AbortSignal;
  
  // Called after each successful batch
  onBatchSuccess?: (results: R[], batch: T[], index: number) => void;
  
  // Called when a batch fails
  onBatchError?: (error: Error, batch: T[], index: number) => void;
  
  // Called to report progress
  onProgress?: (progress: {
    completed: number;
    total: number;
    percent: number;
  }) => void;
}
```

#### Returns

```typescript
Promise<{
  results: R[];          // Array of successfully processed items
  errors: Error[];       // Array of errors from failed batches
}>
```

## Error Handling

The library provides a `BatchProcessingError` class for detailed error information:

```typescript
class BatchProcessingError extends Error {
  constructor(
    message: string,
    public readonly batch: unknown[],
    public readonly batchIndex: number,
    public readonly originalError: Error
  )
}
```

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
bun install

# Run tests
bun test

# Type checking
bun run type-check

# Build package
bun run build

# Clean build artifacts
bun run clean

# Prepare for publishing (runs tests, type check, build and size check)
bun run prepublishOnly
```

## Publishing

Before publishing, make sure to:

1. Update version in package.json
2. Run prepublishOnly script to ensure everything is working
3. Create git tag for the version

```bash
# Update version
bun version patch # or minor, or major

# Prepare and publish
bun run prepublishOnly
bun publish
```

## License

MIT

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.
